MINKO GECHEV: Hello, everyone.
My name is Minko Gechev.
I'm working on
Angular at Google.
Over the years, I
have profiled hundreds
of Angular applications.
And I have noticed that
the majority of performance
challenges fit into a couple
of different patterns.
Today, we're going to
look into these patterns,
and we're going to learn
how to resolve them.
In this video,
first, you'll learn
how to use Angular DevTools.
After that, we'll
identify different
performance-regression patterns
and learn how to resolve them.
For this purpose, we'll
use a simple prototype
of a typical
business application.
At the very top of the
UI, we have a bar chart.
Under the chart,
we have two lists
of employees from organizational
Sales and R&D departments.
Each employee has a
name and a numeric value
associated with them that goes
through a heavy computation.
In each of these lists,
we can ask new employees.
As you'll see in
the code, there is
the foundation for implementing
the lead functionality,
as well.
But for simplicity, it
is not part of the UI.
Remember I mentioned that the
numeric value for each employee
goes through a
heavy computation?
I have mocked this computation
with the Fibonacci function
to keep things simple.
Notice that we've implemented
a pretty inefficient version
of Fibonacci so that even
minor performance problems can
have significant visible impacts
in the examples we'll explore.
Implement the entire application
with just two components--
EmployeeListComponent, which
contains the list of employees
for the corresponding
department and has
a text input for
entering new employees,
and the AppComponent,
which renders two list
instances of the
EmployeeListComponent and a bar
chart at the top.
Before we jump to
the patterns, let
us look at how we can
profile an application
by using Angular DevTools.
Angular DevTools is a
Chrome DevTools extension
that you can install from
the Chrome Web Store.
It allows you to preview the
structure of your application
in the Components explorer.
For this video, we'll be
primarily using the Profiler.
To start profiling
an application, click
on the Record button.
As Angular performs change
detection in your app,
you'll see bars corresponding to
the individual change detection
cycles appearing in
DevTools's timeline.
When we select the
frame from the timeline,
we can preview how
much time we spend
on the individual components.
Here, we spend the majority of
the change-detection invocation
within the MatFormField
and EmployeeListComponent.
DevTools allows us to
preview the Profiler output
in different formats--
bar charts, tree maps,
and flame graphs.
The flame graph provides
a hierarchical view
of the component tree.
When we click on a
particular component,
we can see how much time
Angular spent on it.
For example, we spent
about 0.1 milliseconds
on detecting changes within
the EmployeeListComponent.
Since our application doesn't
have a complicated nested
structure, we'll use the
default bar chart view.
Now let us look at
individual patterns.
We'll describe the
cause of the problem.
You'll learn how to
identify it and resolve it.
The first pattern we're going
to look into is zone pollution.
Let us go back to
the application
and start recording with
Angular DevTools's Profiler.
If we start interacting with the
bar chart in the application,
we'll see that we trigger
multiple change detection
cycles, each of which takes
a decent amount of time.
If we explore the
change detection cycles,
we'll see that the source
of the change detection
is mouseup and mousemove events.
Each cycle takes more
than 740 milliseconds,
which significantly drops
the browser's frame rate.
We spent most of the
time in the two instances
of the EmployeeListComponent,
where each check takes
more than 360 milliseconds.
Now let us resolve this problem.
The beginning of
app.component's template
is div container where
we render the bar chart.
We initialize the chart in
the Ng on the [INAUDIBLE]
lifecycle hook in
the app.component
by invoking the new plot method
of the Plotly charting library.
We pass the ID of
the DOM container
and the data we want to render.
Given the mouseup
and mousemove events
that we got in
the Profiler, this
means that probably the
initialization logic of Plotly
is adding these
EventListeners to the bars.
Plotly offers a
standalone library
that doesn't need to
interact with Angular.
We can run the initialization
logic outside of the Angular
zone to prevent the invocation
of redundant change detection
cycles.
Let us go to the
constructor of app.component
and inject the Ng zone.
We can go back to the
chart's initialization logic
and the rapid
inside of a callback
that we pass to
runOutsideangular.
When we go back
to the application
and start the
Profiler, we'll see
that interactions with
the bars in the bar chart
don't trigger change
detections anymore.
The zone-pollution pattern
occurs when the Angular zone
wraps callbacks that trigger
redundant change detection
cycles.
Polluting the zone happens when
we run an initialization logic
that uses requestAnimationFrame,
setTimeout,
or addEventListener.
We can identify the
problem by looking
for unexpected change detection
cycles in the Profiler output.
In most cases, I have
found that the reason
is requestAnimationFrame.
The solution is usually
pretty straightforward.
All you need to do is move
the initialization logic
outside of the Angular zone.
The following pattern we'll
look into is the out of bounds
change detection.
Let us go back to
the application
and enter a new employee.
Notice that the experience
is pretty laggy.
When we start profiling, we
notice two change detection
cycles triggered on
each character we enter.
The first one is
on the Input event,
and the second
one is on keydown.
For both events, we spent
more than 380 milliseconds
detecting changes
in the two instances
of the EmployeeListComponent.
Notice that even though
we are typing only
in the input for the
Sales department,
we also check the
R&D department.
Since typing in
these input changes
only the View state within
the Sales department,
detecting changes in the
R&D department is redundant.
Let us fix this.
For this purpose, we'll update
the change-detection strategy
of the EmployeeListComponents
to OnPush.
With OnPush, Angular will
trigger change detection
within the component
when we pass input
with a new value based
on an [INAUDIBLE] check.
We'll use an immutable
list from immutable.js
to prevent mutation of
the array references
and also, to ensure efficient
structure of sharing of data.
Let us first change the Sales
and R&D department arrays
to immutable lists.
After that, we'll update
the signatures of the Add
and Remove methods
in the app.component
so that they can accept
immutable lists of employees.
Next, we need to make sure we
assign the results produced
by these two methods to
update the local references
and pass them down the component
tree to EmployeeListComponent.
We need the assignment
because we are no longer
mutating the lists.
Instead, Immutabe.js
creates new ones.
Since we're now
passing immutable lists
to the EmployeeListComponent,
we need
to update the type
of its data input.
Immutable lists have size
rather than a length property,
so we need to update the
property access in the template
and set the changeDetection
strategy to OnPush.
Now, let us get back
to the application.
Notice that entering
a new employee
now is a little faster,
even though it still
looks pretty laggy.
Let us fix this.
We'll do this as part of the
refactoring of out of bounds
change detection.
When we start typing
into the input,
Angular performs change
detection pretty regularly.
It checks the whole
EmployeeListComponent
and evaluates each employee's
heavy computation twice--
on input and on keydown events,
even though none of the values
have changed.
This happens because
typing into the input
triggers events that bypass
the OnPush change-detection
strategy.
And when an event within
a component with OnPush
change-detection
strategy occurs,
Angular will detect this
component for changes,
even if it hasn't
received new inputs.
The problem here
is that we're only
changing the local
state of the input
but not updating the
individual employees, which
means that it is safe
to completely skip
change direction for them.
To improve the
performance here, we'll
refactor the component tree.
Currently, the app component
renders two instances
of the EmployeeListComponent.
At the end of this section,
the EmployeeListComponent
will use the NameInputComponents
to get new employees' names
and ListComponent to render
the list of employees.
We'll use OnPush
change-detection strategy
for the list component.
So this way, events happening
in the sibling component,
the NameInputComponent,
will not trigger
any redundant revaluations
for employees.
Let us first go to the directory
of the EmployeeListComponent
and create the
name-input.component
and the list.component.
As the next step, we can
extract the input field from
the employee-list.component
to the template
of the name-input.component.
We can also move the
corresponding styles, the label
property, and the handleKey
method and copy the out output.
Let us also remove the
OnInit lifecycle hook.
We can use the
name-input.component within
the employee-list.component's
template,
handling the app's
output as the next step.
Now let us move the rest of the
mat-list part of the template
to the ListComponent.
We should also carry
the calculate method
and remove the OnInit
lifecycle hook implementation
because we're
simply not using it.
Next, let us move the
Fibonacci function.
We can now move the data input.
Finally, we can copy
the remove output.
To ensure the UI
looks crisp, we can
move the styles associated
with the list visualization
to the styles of
the list component.
Finally, we can set the
change-detection strategy
of the list.components
to OnPush.
Let us use the list.component
in the employee-list.components
template, passing the
corresponding input
and handling the remove output.
When you go back
to the application,
notice that the
typing experience
is without any noticeable lag.
To recap, this
performance problem
occurs when an action
that only impacts
the local state of a
particular component
triggers change detection
in unrelated parts
of the componentry.
We can identify the problem
by inspecting the Profiler's
output and finding
the components that
are not supposed to be affected
by a particular interaction.
To resolve the issue, we
can isolate the component
which triggers frequent
local state changes
and sets the components with
expensive change detection
checks to use OnPush.
The third pattern
we're going to look at
is the recalculation of
referentially transparent
expressions.
If we have an expression
in a template that
could be replaced
with its value when
its parameters don't
change, we call
it referentially transparent.
This means that we don't
have to recalculate
the expressions between
change-detection cycles
unless their input change.
Let us go back to
the application
and add an employee.
Notice that we got a pretty
expensive change-station cycle
triggered by the keydown event.
We dropped the
browser's frame rate
and Angular spent most of
its change detection cycles
within the list component.
When we add a new employee
to the Sales list,
we invoke the add methods
of the app component, which
creates an immutable list.
The immutable list passes
the new immutable list
to the ListComponent,
triggering its change detection.
Angular goes through
the individual employees
and recalculates
their numeric values,
even though they didn't change.
Ideally, you would want to
calculate the value only
for a new employee.
We can improve the
application's performance
here with a little
bit of refactoring.
We can create a new
pipe called calculate.
Let us import the pipe
decorator and sets
the pipe name to "calculate."
Here, we explicitly
said the pipe
to be pure for readability,
even though that's
the property's default value.
As a next step, we can implement
the CalculatePipe class,
adding a transform method and
implementing the PipeTransform
interface.
Now let us move the
Fibonacci implementation
and remove the redundant
calculate method
from the ListComponent.
Let us add the CalculatePipe
to the declarations
in the employee-list.module.
Finally, we need to update the
template of the ListComponent
to use the pipe rather
than a method call.
Notice that now we
can add an employee
without any visible delays.
To recap, this problem occurs
when Angular recalculates
the same template
expression repeatedly,
even though they depend only on
parameters that value does not
change.
We can identify the problem
with Angular DevTools
by noticing change
detection cycles that
don't take time proportional to
the changes we made in the UI.
The solution usually involves
either moving a calculation
to a pure pipe or caching
it via memorization.
The final pattern
we're going to look at
is large component trees.
Even if we have
optimized each component
and don't perform
redundant calculations,
we can still observe frame
drops if we have thousands
of component instances.
To show how we can improve the
performance in this scenario,
I added a few hundred of
employees to each list.
When we add a new
employee, we notice
that detecting the
ListComponent for changes
takes over 25 milliseconds,
which causes frame drops.
Improving the performance
in large component trees
involves making the
component tree smaller.
Standard techniques are
on-demand rendering,
such as virtualization
or pagination.
For our purposes, we're going
to use the Angular cdk's
virtual scrolling component.
In the template of
the ListComponent,
we will use the
cdk_virtual_scroll_viewport
with item size equal to 50.
And we're also going to add the
CSS class "viewport" so that we
can style this component.
Instead of using ngFor
in the mat-list item,
we'll use the cdkVirtualFor.
We'll also set the height of
the container to 800 pixels.
And that's all.
Now when we add a new
item, the change section
in the ListComponent
takes 1/5 of the time
it used to take before.
Keep in mind that
even if you have
highly optimized components
and render thousands of them,
their templates
combined could still
be very expensive
during change detection.
You can identify this
problem in your DevTools
if you find many
components that just
take a fraction of the
overall change detection cycle
or when there is one component
with a really large view that
takes a lot of
time to be checked.
The solution involves on-demand
rendering of components
to trim the component tree.
That's pretty much everything
I had for you today.
We first went through
the fundamentals
of using Angular DevTools,
focusing on the profiler.
After that, we
explored four patterns
that can help you
identify and resolve
common performance issues--
zone pollution, out of bounds,
change detection, recalculation
of referentially
transparent expressions,
and large component trees.
Thank you very much for
watching this video.
See you next time
and happy coding.